README.adoc, before:

image:https://spring.io/badges/spring-ws/ga.svg["Spring Web Services", link="https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws#learn"]
image:https://spring.io/badges/spring-ws/snapshot.svg["Spring Web Services", link="https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws#learn"]

image:https://jenkins.spring.io/buildStatus/icon?job=spring-ws%2Fmain&subject=main[link=https://jenkins.spring.io/view/SpringWebServices/job/spring-ws/]
image:https://jenkins.spring.io/buildStatus/icon?job=spring-ws%2F3.1.x&subject=3.1.x[link=https://jenkins.spring.io/view/SpringWebServices/job/spring-ws/]

= Spring Web Services

Spring Web Services is a product of the Spring community focused on creating
document-driven Web services. Spring Web Services aims to facilitate
contract-first SOAP service development, allowing for the creation of flexible
web services using one of the many ways to manipulate XML payloads.

== Installation

Releases of Spring Web Services are available for download from Maven Central,
as well as our own repository, https://repo.spring.io/release[https://repo.spring.io/release].

Please visit https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws to get the right Maven/Gradle settings for your selected version.

== Building Spring Web Services

. Run `./mvnw clean package`

This will generate the artifacts.

You can also import the project into your IDE.

== Making a release

Before you make a release, follow this checklist:

* Are you using the latest milestone/release candidate/release of Spring Framework? If not, upgrade. (Don't forget `spring-buildsnapshot` profile.)
* Are you using the latest milestone/release candidate/release of Spring Security? If not, upgrade. (Don't forget `spring-buildsnapshot` profile.)
* Are you setup with the right version of Java? If not switch. (Java 17 for 4.0+, Java 8 for everything else.)
* Is it time to switch from milestone to release candidate? Or from release candidate to release?

NOTE: The _actual_ building and releasing is done on CI inside a Docker container, ensuring little risk between versions of Java.
But part of the release process requires a local check, which DOES depend upon your environment.

1. Create a new release (on the main branch).
+
----
% ci/create-release.sh <release version> <next snapshot version>
----
+
2. With the release tagged, update the release branch to the newly created tag.
+
----
% git checkout -b release
% git reset --hard <tag>
----
+
3. Verify this builds locally and passes all tests.
+
----
% ./mvnw clean package
% ./mvnw -Pspring-buildsnapshot clean package
----
+
4. Push the tagged version to the release branch.
+
----
% git push -f origin release
----
+
5. For milestones and release candidates, verify the artifacts on artifactory.
6. For releases, login to maven central.
* Verify the release.
* Close the repository.
* Release the repository.
7. Announce on VMware Slack.
8. Once completed, push the `main` branch for next version's snapshots.
+
----
% git checkout main
% git push
% git push --tags
----

The pipeline will build and release the "release" branch on artifactory for milestones and RCs.
For releases, they are sent to maven central.

Once the release is completed and tags are pushed:

. Close the Github issue milestone.
. Run the `ChangeLogCreator` report against that milestone.
. Go to https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ws/releases.
. Find that tag and create a new release. Use the output from `ChangeLogCreator` as the content for the release report.
. Announce on #spring-release.

=== Running CI tasks locally

Since the pipeline uses Docker, it's easy to:

* Debug what went wrong on your local machine.
* Test out a tweak to your `test.sh` script before sending it out.
* Experiment against a new image before submitting your pull request.

All of these use cases are great reasons to know what Jenkins does, on your local machine.

IMPORTANT: To do this you must have Docker installed on your machine.

1. `docker run -it --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/spring-ws-github openjdk:17-bullseye /bin/bash`
+
This will launch the Docker image and mount your source code at `spring-ws-github`.
+
2. `cd spring-ws-github`
+
Next, run the `test.sh` script from inside the container:
+
2. `PROFILE=none ci/test.sh`

Since the container is binding to your source, you can make edits from your IDE and continue to run build jobs.

If you need to test the `build.sh` script, then do this:

1. `docker run -it --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/spring-ws-github openjdk:17-bullseye /bin/bash`
+
This will launch the Docker image and mount your source code at `spring-ws-github` and the temporary
artifactory output directory at `spring-ws-artifactory`.
+
Next, run the `build.sh` script from inside the container:
+
2. `ci/build.sh`

IMPORTANT: `build.sh` will attempt to push to Artifactory. If you don't supply credentials, it will fail.

NOTE: Docker containers can eat up disk space fast! From time to time, run `docker system prune` to clean out old images.

== Code of Conduct

This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.adoc[code of conduct].
By participating, you  are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior to spring-code-of-conduct@pivotal.io.

= Spring Web Services Project Site

You can find the documentation, issue management, support, samples, and guides for using Spring Web Services at https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws/

== Documentation

See the current https://docs.spring.io/spring-ws/docs/current/api/[Javadoc] and https://docs.spring.io/spring-ws/docs/current/reference/[reference docs].

== Issue Tracking

Spring Web Services uses https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ws/issues[Github] for issue tracking purposes.

== License

Spring Web Services is https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html[Apache 2.0 licensed].

Commit message:

Introduce Spring WS BOM.
The Spring WS BOM itself uses the flatten-maven-plugin to produce a POM file simplified for community consumption. The same plugin is ready to go for the other modules. But given the risk of breaking existing users, it will not be applied until Spring WS 4.1 is released (#1307).

Resolves #1290.
Related: #1205, #1285.

README.adoc, after:

image:https://spring.io/badges/spring-ws/ga.svg["Spring Web Services", link="https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws#learn"]
image:https://spring.io/badges/spring-ws/snapshot.svg["Spring Web Services", link="https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws#learn"]

image:https://jenkins.spring.io/buildStatus/icon?job=spring-ws%2Fmain&subject=main[link=https://jenkins.spring.io/view/SpringWebServices/job/spring-ws/]
image:https://jenkins.spring.io/buildStatus/icon?job=spring-ws%2F3.1.x&subject=3.1.x[link=https://jenkins.spring.io/view/SpringWebServices/job/spring-ws/]

= Spring Web Services

Spring Web Services is a product of the Spring community focused on creating
document-driven Web services. Spring Web Services aims to facilitate
contract-first SOAP service development, allowing for the creation of flexible
web services using one of the many ways to manipulate XML payloads.

== Installation

Releases of Spring Web Services are available for download from Maven Central,
as well as our own repository, https://repo.spring.io/release[https://repo.spring.io/release].

Please visit https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws to get the right Maven/Gradle settings for your selected version.

== Building Spring Web Services

. Run `./mvnw clean package`

This will generate the artifacts.

You can also import the project into your IDE.

== Making a release

Before you make a release, follow this checklist:

* Are you using the latest milestone/release candidate/release of Spring Framework? If not, upgrade. (Don't forget `spring-buildsnapshot` profile.)
* Are you using the latest milestone/release candidate/release of Spring Security? If not, upgrade. (Don't forget `spring-buildsnapshot` profile.)
* Are you setup with the right version of Java? If not switch. (Java 17 for 4.0+, Java 8 for everything else.)
* Is it time to switch from milestone to release candidate? Or from release candidate to release?

NOTE: The _actual_ building and releasing is done on CI inside a Docker container, ensuring little risk between versions of Java.
But part of the release process requires a local check, which DOES depend upon your environment.

. Update `spring-ws-bom/pom.xml` to contain the planned release version. (`mvn versions:set` will NOT alter these settings.)
+
. Create a new release (on the main branch).
+
----
% ci/create-release.sh <release version> <next snapshot version>
----
+
. With the release tagged, update the release branch to the newly created tag.
+
----
% git checkout -b release
% git reset --hard <tag>
----
+
. Verify this builds locally and passes all tests.
+
----
% ./mvnw clean package
% ./mvnw -Pspring-buildsnapshot clean package
----
+
. Push the tagged version to the release branch.
+
----
% git push -f origin release
----
+
. For milestones and release candidates, verify the artifacts on artifactory.
. For releases, login to maven central.
* Verify the release.
* Close the repository.
* Release the repository.
. Announce on VMware Slack.
. Once completed, push the `main` branch for next version's snapshots.
+
----
% git checkout main
% git push
% git push --tags
----

The pipeline will build and release the "release" branch on artifactory for milestones and RCs.
For releases, they are sent to maven central.

Once the release is completed and tags are pushed:

. Close the Github issue milestone.
. Run the `ChangeLogCreator` report against that milestone.
. Go to https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ws/releases.
. Find that tag and create a new release. Use the output from `ChangeLogCreator` as the content for the release report.
. Announce on #spring-release.

=== Running CI tasks locally

Since the pipeline uses Docker, it's easy to:

* Debug what went wrong on your local machine.
* Test out a tweak to your `test.sh` script before sending it out.
* Experiment against a new image before submitting your pull request.

All of these use cases are great reasons to know what Jenkins does, on your local machine.

IMPORTANT: To do this you must have Docker installed on your machine.

1. `docker run -it --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/spring-ws-github openjdk:17-bullseye /bin/bash`
+
This will launch the Docker image and mount your source code at `spring-ws-github`.
+
2. `cd spring-ws-github`
+
Next, run the `test.sh` script from inside the container:
+
2. `PROFILE=none ci/test.sh`

Since the container is binding to your source, you can make edits from your IDE and continue to run build jobs.

If you need to test the `build.sh` script, then do this:

1. `docker run -it --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/spring-ws-github openjdk:17-bullseye /bin/bash`
+
This will launch the Docker image and mount your source code at `spring-ws-github` and the temporary
artifactory output directory at `spring-ws-artifactory`.
+
Next, run the `build.sh` script from inside the container:
+
2. `ci/build.sh`

IMPORTANT: `build.sh` will attempt to push to Artifactory. If you don't supply credentials, it will fail.

NOTE: Docker containers can eat up disk space fast! From time to time, run `docker system prune` to clean out old images.

== Code of Conduct

This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.adoc[code of conduct].
By participating, you  are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior to spring-code-of-conduct@pivotal.io.

= Spring Web Services Project Site

You can find the documentation, issue management, support, samples, and guides for using Spring Web Services at https://spring.io/projects/spring-ws/

== Documentation

See the current https://docs.spring.io/spring-ws/docs/current/api/[Javadoc] and https://docs.spring.io/spring-ws/docs/current/reference/[reference docs].

== Issue Tracking

Spring Web Services uses https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-ws/issues[Github] for issue tracking purposes.

== License

Spring Web Services is https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html[Apache 2.0 licensed].
